Add more Type Class deriving details (#338)
purescript/documentation: language/Type-Classes.md

nub [Some, Arbitrary 1, Some, Some] == [Some, Arbitrary 1]
```

Currently, instances for the following classes can be derived by the compiler:
- [Data.Generic.Rep (class Generic)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-generics-rep/docs/Data.Generic.Rep#t:Generic)
- [Data.Eq (class Eq)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-prelude/docs/Data.Eq#t:Eq)
- [Data.Ord (class Ord)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-prelude/docs/Data.Ord#t:Ord)
- [Data.Functor (class Functor)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-prelude/docs/Data.Functor#t:Functor)
- [Data.Newtype (class Newtype)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-newtype/docs/Data.Newtype#t:Newtype)

### Derive from `newtype`

If you would like your newtype to defer to the instance that the underlying type uses for a given class, then you can use newtype deriving via the `derive newtype` keywords.

For example, let's say you want to add two `Score` values using the `Semiring` instance of the wrapped `Int`.

```purs
newtype Score = Score Int

derive newtype instance semiringScore :: Semiring Score

tenPoints :: Score
tenPoints = (Score 4) + (Score 6)
```

> That `derive` line replaced all this code!:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That `derive` line replaced all this code:
```

Author: We'll just have to let readers form their own conclusions about how exciting this feature is.

```purs
-- No need to write this
instance semiringScore :: Semiring Score where
  zero = Score 0
  add (Score a) (Score b) = Score (a + b)
  mul (Score a) (Score b) = Score (a * b)
  one = Score 1
```

Note that we can use either of these options to derive an `Eq` instance for a `newtype`, since `Eq` has built-in compiler support. They are equivalent in this case.

```purs
derive instance eqScore :: Eq Score
derive newtype instance eqScore :: Eq Score
```

### Deriving from `Generic`

The compiler's built-in support for `Generic` unlocks convenient deriving for many other classes not listed above.

> For example, if we wanted a `Show` instance for `MyADT`, it might seem like we're out of luck because neither `MyADT` is a `newtype` nor is `Show` listed as a class with built-in compiler support.

Reviewer: Minor grammar typo with `neither` here, but GitHub is not letting me add a suggestion so I'm copy/pasting a suggestion:

> For example, if we wanted a `Show` instance for `MyADT` it might seem like we're out of luck:  `Show` is not a class with built-in compiler support for deriving and `MyADT` is not a `newtype` (so we can't use newtype deriving).

But we _can_ use `genericShow`, which works with _any_ type that has a `Generic` instance. And recall that the compiler has built-in support for deriving a `Generic` instance for any type (including the `MyADT` type). We put all those pieces together like so:

```purescript
import Data.Generic.Rep (class Generic)
import Data.Generic.Rep.Show (genericShow)
import Effect.Console (logShow)

derive instance genericMyADT :: Generic MyADT _

instance showMyADT :: Show MyADT where
  show = genericShow
  
main = logShow [Some, Arbitrary 1, Contents 2.0 "Three"]
-- Prints:
-- [Some,(Arbitrary 1),(Contents 2.0 "Three")]
```

> Note that the `show` output string can be copy-pasted to reconstruct the original data. This is a good oportunity to emphasize how `newtype` deriving simply reuses the instance of the underlying type. In the case of `show`, this means omitting printing the wrapper.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Show` type class is most often used for debugging data, so the output of most `Show` instances can be copy-pasted back into a PureScript source file to reconstruct the original data. The `Show` instance we created by deriving `Generic` and then using `genericShow` follows this convention.

This is a good opportunity to emphasize how newtype deriving is different from instances derived by the compiler or through the `Generic` type class. In the examples below, notice how the instance derived through `Generic` includes the newtype constructor `Score`, but the newtype-derived instance simply reuses the underlying `Show` instance for `Int` and therefore does not include the constructor:
```

## Type Class Deriving

> The compiler can derive type class instances to spare you the tedium of writing boilerplate. There are a few ways to do this depending on the specific Type and Class being derived.

Reviewer: I think we typically leave `type` and `class` lower-cased.

> ### Derive from `newtype`

Reviewer: I think newtype deriving should come after regular deriving. It's really common to throw together a sum type and then derive `Eq` and `Ord` instances, for example, and I think that's a nice motivating example for deriving in general.

Newtype deriving is a bit special because a) you can derive more things and b) it has some subtle behavior around instances using the same implementation as the underlying type that deserves an explanation.

What do you think of shifting this to after `derive` has been introduced?

> If you'd like to use a wrapped type's instance for your newtype, use the `derive newtype` keywords.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this fully captures the idea that you're deferring to the wrapped type's instance -- that it's almost like your newtype is ignored and the instance goes directly to whatever the wrapped type does for that class.

What about this tweak?

> If you would like your newtype to defer to the instance that the underlying type uses for a given class, then you can use newtype deriving via the `derive newtype` keywords.

> For example, let's say you want to add two `Points` values using the `Semiring` instance of the wrapped `Int`.

Reviewer: I think the `semiring` example is a great example of something useful that (iirc) can't be derived via the usual `derive` keyword and has to use newtype deriving. However, the example that I think best illustrates what exactly newtype deriving is doing is `Show`.

Specifically:

```purs
newtype Point = Point Int

derive newtype instance showPoint :: Show Point
```

and then in the repl:

```
> show (Point 1)
"1"
```

This illustrates that you're really using the show instance for `Int` -- you don't see the "Point" constructor at all. Same idea applies to things like deriving a `DecodeJson` instance (which I don't think we should cover here).

I don't think that we need to delete the semiring example, but maybe we could also touch on the show example to demonstrate this further.

Author: > you don't see the "Point" constructor at all.

This is clearer to contrast if the reader is already familiar with `generic`, which I believe is the only `derive` option that prints the constructor. I can still include a lookahead note. Wondering if there's another example that doesn't depend on `generic`.

- [Data.Generic.Rep (class Generic)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-generics-rep/docs/Data.Generic.Rep#t:Generic)
- [Data.Eq (class Eq)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-prelude/docs/Data.Eq#t:Eq)
- [Data.Ord (class Ord)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-prelude/docs/Data.Ord#t:Ord)
- [Data.Functor (class Functor)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-prelude/docs/Data.Functor#t:Functor)
- [Data.Newtype (class Newtype)](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-newtype/docs/Data.Newtype#t:Newtype)

Note that with our earlier `Points` `newtype`, we can use either of these options to derive an `Eq` instance. They are equivalent in this case.

```purs
derive instance eqPoints :: Eq Points
derive newtype instance eqPoints :: Eq Points
```

### Deriving from `Generic`

The compiler's built-in support for `Generic` unlocks convenient deriving for many other classes not listed above.

For example, if we wanted a `Show` instance for `MyADT`, it might seem like we're out of luck because neither `MyADT` is a `newtype` nor is `Show` listed as a class with built-in compiler support.

> But we _can_ use `genricShow`, which works with _any_ type that has a `Generic` instance. And recall that the compiler has built-in support for deriving a `Generic` instance for any type (including the `MyADT` type). We put all those pieces together like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But we _can_ use `genericShow`, which works with _any_ type that has a `Generic` instance. And recall that the compiler has built-in support for deriving a `Generic` instance for any type (including the `MyADT` type). We put all those pieces together like so:
```

This might be the better place to demonstrate the `Show` differences between newtype deriving and generic deriving, actually, rather than earlier. I believe that the generic version of `Points` will include the constructor and the newtype derived version will not.

Author: Geeze. I should read all the comments before commenting myself.

```purescript
import Data.Generic.Rep (class Generic)
import Data.Generic.Rep.Show (genericShow)
import Effect.Console (logShow)

derive instance genericMyADT :: Generic MyADT _

instance showMyADT :: Show MyADT where
  show = genericShow
  
main = logShow [Some, Arbitrary 1, Contents 2.0 "Three"]
-- Prints:
-- [Some,(Arbitrary 1),(Contents 2.0 "Three")]
```

More information on Generic deriving is available [in the generics-rep library documentation](https://pursuit.purescript.org/packages/purescript-generics-rep).

#### Avoiding stack overflow errors with recursive types

> Be careful when using generic functions with recursive data types. The instances _cannot_ be written in point free style:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful when using generic functions with recursive data types. Due to strictness, these instances _cannot_ be written in point free style:
```
